---
title: 'Project 365: Month 11'
asset: 'autumn-in-ohio'
category: be
published: false
---

Yes, I'm still here.

Still successfully journeying on in my year of nothing new.

And since we are almost at the close of this year, I think its confession time.

1 - I thought this was going to be a lot more difficult. That I was going to be able to keep track of how much I "wanted to spend" every month, because surely, I was going to be in want.

2 - I thought we would have this big lump sum of money at the end of everything  to then decide where we would give it away.

3 - I thought that along the way, I would have many funny stories to tell about how miserably I was doing.

4 -  I thought more people would join me. So MANY people were enthused, and wildly supportive and excited about my journey. But only a few actually took up the challenge with me.

5 - I bought one new thing. Yes. I did.

All in all, my expectations about the project were sorely mistaken.

But then again - I didn't embark on this journey to save money and give it to charity. And I certainly didn't embark on this journey because I thought my misery might be worth reading about, or to see how many people would join in.

I started this out of a burning desire to clear out the clutter of my life.  I wanted to make room in my life for more of Christ to enter in. More room and less stuff.

I wanted to shift my way of thinking from being concerned about what others thought of me, to living completely free of judgement.

I wanted to discover a little bit more about what my heart really is after.

And to counter my expectations, here's a glimpse of what God has done for me this year:

1 - I thought this was going to be a lot more difficult. That I was going to be able to keep track of how much I "wanted to spend" every month, because surely, I was going to be in want.

I asked God to be present in every moment of this. I asked him to put an end to my worldly desires. My urge to "keep up." To change my idea of what a "need." is. And after about month three  - He did all of this.

2 - I thought we would have this big lump sum of money at the end of everything  to then decide where we would give it away.

Part of my desire to embark on this journey, came from being broken-hearted over how much we mindlessly spend, while others barely have one outfit to wear. I was tired of just going about my day, not thinking about those who are hungry, cold and homeless. And so I vowed to make my heart more charity oriented.

It used to be, that if I saw someone on the side of the freeway with a sign asking for money, I usually didn't have a way to help, as I rarely carry cash. Or, I would be driving the wrong way on the road and not able to stop.

Now,  If I see someone standing on the corner with a sign, I stop. I give them whatever I have in my car. And if I have nothing, I keep going to the nearest drive-through, and buy them a meal. I have out-right done a U-turn to bring a homeless man lunch and an umbrella. I keep water bottles in my car, so that if nothing else, I can give them a drink of water and let them know they are loved.

And what does it cost me? 10 minutes and $5. It breaks me, even in this moment, just thinking that I used to drive by. I used to be too busy. I used to not really see.

3 - I thought that along the way, I would have many funny stories to tell about how miserably I was doing.

Along the way, I have been able to share so much of my heart with people. It has spurred conversation with co-workers and even random people.  While this year hasn't necessarily been worth writing about constantly, God has written so much on my heart. So much about MY story and what he has called me to.

4 -  I thought more people would join me. So MANY people were enthused, and wildly supportive and excited about my journey. But only a few actually took up the challenge with me.

The support I received was, overwhelming, to say the least. I shared my story on our local radio, and people came out of the wood work to cheer me on. I have felt loved and championed, even in such a small endeavor.

5 - I bought one new thing. Yes. I did.

I haven't had an actual winter coat in years. Seriously. I never wanted to spend the money. After last years ridiculously bitter winter, I thought I probably should make that investment. And so, when I got an unexpected bonus at work, Chris told me to spend it. So I bought myself a winter coat.

I have not bought any new clothes other than my coat. Anything I purchased this year was second-hand. And yes, I did have to get a few things. I tend to change my pants size often, depending on how I am choosing to work out. What I learned, is that there is no shame in shopping second hand. Actually, I was thrilled and will probably shop this way for the rest of my life. At second hand stores around here, you can find clothes with the tags still on them from places like J.Crew, Banana republic and Gap, for $3-5!!

In a few weeks, I will enter my last month of this journey. I'll share some final thoughts, and what I plan to do in the next year and years to come.

At the end of my life, I'm not taking anything with me. So I'm not going to spend my days on earth collecting it.



