---
title: "just be"
asset: "bestill2" 
category: be
published: true
---

BE well.

Not DO well, but BE well.

Seems like all I know how to do, is more doing. More trying, more filling, more serving, more leading. More of the things that I know God thinks are good.

But in this Lenten season, again, I tried to do. To cut away at the flesh, deny it something it craves – and then, I failed. And instead of resting at the foot of the cross where my failures were nailed, I tried to dust it back off.

I keep trying to pick up the fumble, as if I have the strength to carry my struggles. The thing of it is, the most true part of my heart doesn’t want to carry my struggles. I want to hurl them back down into the pit – in the tender valley where Jesus holds them all. 

But my false self knows no other way than "do and try." Over and over. Where's the room for grace?

As if trying got me any closer to the place I was headed. Where was I headed? Perhaps I had lost sight. Isn’t the purpose of Lent to draw near to Jesus? To remind us of our desperation for his power to save us?

I’m not so desperate when I’m succeeding. My successes become my own. But when I’m failing? My desperation comes in the pit. In the valley where I can’t see over the hill – he meets me there.

Perhaps that’s exactly what God has in mind. To remind us that we live according to our flesh and if Jesus does not come and do EVERY thing, we are nothing. 

In our flesh we live, in ashes and dust, *and the only person who can breathe a little living into it, hung nail to tree and he accomplished it all.*

Oh, sweet love. When you fall, you don’t really fail. You fall into mercy-scared hands that hold the broken bits of you. And he just holds us. And there is no doing, there is no trying. There is just being. 

[#graceinlivingwell](https://www.instagram.com/explore/tags/graceinlivingwell/)

