---
title: "pursuit of the giver"
asset: "filename of image (assumes a .jpg extension)" 
category: be
published: false
---

I recently had a conversation with a young mom, sharing sentiments about how she felt so strange preparing for the birth and life of her child in a "different way" than other mothers of her generation. 

They didn't find out the sex of their baby. She said “I felt like the minute I knew if the baby was a boy or a girl, I’d start praying my own agenda for their life.” 

They didn't buy things with the baby’s name. They didn’t paint the nursery pink or blue. _And she didn't start praying for that baby’s future spouse._

You might read that and think praying for a child's future spouse is a bit strange. But it seems praying for a child's future spouse is as natural as praying for their health. A seemingly harmless gesture, intended to shepherd good things in the lives of our children.

We hear it mentioned during wedding speeches: "Your mother and I have been praying for your spouse since you were born."  We hear it spoken in the years leading up to marriage: "Focus on making yourself the person your spouse will want to marry." And now, it's common-place for mothers to begin thinking about their child's future spouse upon conception.

This “good things” agenda starts before our children are even born. And I can’t help but wonder if our intentions are short-sighting our children, especially our girls.

**Are we crippling our girls from being able to discern the will of God from our wish for good things?**

I know. You don’t like what I’m saying right now. You’re probably thinking “I would never force my agenda over God’s will for my child’s life.”

But that’s exactly what happens when we raise them claiming specific things for their life, that God has not actually promised. What if marriage is not what God has willed for their life? And, what if, what if - our children don’t actually want to get married or have kids of their own?

I have many friends who are single. Some by choice, and some still praying that God might have a partner for them. And the resounding frustration I hear from them, is that our daily language is so centered on marriage and family units, it leaves no place for the single woman to feel like her life experiences are as meaningful as her married peers. 

We say things like _“Just wait until you get [married/kids], then you’ll understand.”_

But what if they never get there? Then what? If we keep saying that true love, joy, and purpose only exist in the union of marriage or the miracle of birth, we damage the spirits of those who aren’t there. **Because when we make ANY thing, the ultimate thing, we are devaluing genuine experiences of love and joy for those who will never have those things.**

How has marriage slipped through the entitlement cracks into being the thing God freely wills for each of us? Isn’t every single thing he gives to us a gift and not a given?

What ever happened to “If-statements?” IF you get married, IF you have children, IF you get that job, IF God calls you to this. 
Not “when.” _When_ lays claim over things that aren’t actually ours. 

**When**, sets us up to picture our lives a certain way, and shake our fists at God when it never comes. **IF** allows us to have hands held open to receive and let go freely, whatever God has willed for our lives.

**When-statements breed disappointment. If-statements allow for freedom.**

If we expect our lives to unfold according to a specific agenda, we will continue be unfulfilled people. Because when we are in the pursuit of good things in a set-forth timeline, we will always be left wanting the next thing and the next thing. 

But when we pursue the things of God, unique to what he has called us to, we’re free to be fulfilled right when the gifts come along. We are free to experience true joy and true love – exactly where we are and wherever we are headed.

I want to be part of a generation that raises women to pursue God above all else. A life marked by discerning Gods will as his daughter, not one marked by “waiting and preparing for their spouse” (please, for the love of my graying hair, STOP saying this.)
**God did not create us to get married.** He created us uniquely for his purpose, and he gifts some of us with marriage. 

I want all women, myself included, to feel like the path of our lives has as incredible meaning and purpose, regardless of what it looks like. Husband or no husband, babies or no babies.

And if that looks like living in a remote village, single, childless and serving the least and lost – then glory be. And if it looks like a husband and zero kids, with a full time traveling job, side ministry and writing career - own it, sister. Neither life will be missing out on a single measure of the fullness of joy God has for her. Because when we pursue what God has uniquely planned for us, the joy is found there. 

_The good things in life are not found in the pursuit of the gifts, but the pursuit of the giver._

I’m praying for daughters everywhere. That God would have wild and free things planned for your life, righteously wrecking this world for the kingdom. That your life would be full of joy and love – the kind that only comes from knowing extravagant grace. I hope you stand firmly in who you are, both bold and vulnerable. I hope you never apologize for doing things God has planted in your heart, even if it breaks the mold and makes others uncomfortable. 

And I pray even the most good-intended agendas never set you up to feel like the way your life unfolds is anything but a gift. 

Do your own thing, sister.
