---
title: "peace and love"
asset: "filename of image (assumes a .jpg extension)" 
category: be
published: true
---

Jesus teaches on many things, but he only deems two the greatest: **love God, and love your neighbor.** Easy, right? Seems like it should be. But I don't hear a lot of loving going on. Just a lot of classifying neighbors as "others."

I see individuals with a public audience arguing with peers, in ways that feel hateful and not constructive. 

I see us spending decades talking about who is right or wrong on political issues, focusing on our divisions instead of solutions.

I hear people speaking angrily about their views on LGBT rights, not having one single acquaintance in that group. 

I hear men condemning women who have had an abortion and white people saying racism isn't really an issue. 

Mostly, I hear passionate words about policies, **and not about the actual people these policies affect.** 

Because It's easy, when the way you see the world is "them" and "us," to not have compassion for the other. It's easy, when you can't name a single soul within that marginalized group. And it certainly is less messy, to stay on the sideline. 

But here's what I know about Jesus. _He sought out the messy._ Jesus didn't hang out with the policy makers. He was in and among the people, getting real close. 

Getting close to people, means getting messy. Because you can't love people without knowing their story. And when we get close, our human hearts cannot look away. **When we look into the eyes of hurt and shame, when "they" have a name and a face, they become you.** They are you, and they are me. And you no longer think in terms of policy, but rather, people. Once you look them in the eye, and hear their pain, there is no turning back. 

Can't handle abortion laws? Go find women who are in at-risk pregnancies. Get shoulder to shoulder with them. Love them through the scariest time of their life. Give of your time and resource to them. Speak love and support. Be there for them. Provide options. Let them know they are seen and loved. Don't just yell about policy from afar. Get in there with the people. 

Want to see our criminal justice system reform? Get into the prisons. Volunteer there. Listen to those people, and teach them your craft. Mentor them. Advocate for them. Encourage them. Show up for them when they are released. Champion them to know they have value, they have worth, and they too, have a place in this world. Don't just yell about policy from afar. Get in there with the people. 

_You aren't part of the game if you only stand on the sidelines screaming opinions._

Stand shoulder to shoulder with the people affected by the policies that set you on fire. Be present among them. Know them. BE radical love to them. In so doing, you can be the change.

Instead of focusing on our differences, can we look inward at the state of our own messiness? Because I think we would find, we have more in common than we are comfortable admitting. We're all a little bit of a hot mess.

So Why can't we run head on, right into the mess? What if we all got out there, got our hands messy, and loved people fiercely? What if we stopped arguing about issues we really know nothing about, and got to know the PEOPLE those issues affect? 

What would happen, if we all agreed to disagree, and exhausted our energy pointing people to love? What if we trusted, for one hot second, that God _actually_ knows better? Its not our job to figure it all out and then win people to our "side." **Our job is to point people towards love and scandalous grace.**

The world is screaming a lot of hate, and a lot of restlessness. I believe we are restless with one another, because we ourselves are restless in our soul. **Find peace within yourself, and live at peace with others.**

Peace and love friends. What if we all operated from this place? _What wild unleashing of change could happen next?_ I dare you to find out.


