---
title: "protein pancakes"
asset: "pancakes" 
category: eat
published: true
---

When I really love something, I put it on repeat with no shame. Songs, clothes, routines, and food. If I like something enough, I will eat it every day. 

These pancakes, are one of those things. It took me a while to figure out the ratios, but I wont spend a lot of time explaining how to make them. Really, its easy.

Like all my favorite recipes, the ingredients all go in the blender. Vitamix all day long.

**INGREDIENTS** <br>
1/3 cup organic oats <br>
1/3 cup liquid egg whites <br>
1 banana <br>
1/2 tsp cinnamon <br>
1/2 tsp baking powder <br>
1 tsp butter/coconut oil/whatever you use on your pans. Im really digging [this](http://www.meltorganic.com/organic-butter/) butter substitute.

<br> All ingredients go into the blender on medium high for about a minute. You want the oats to be well broken down. Even if it blends quicker than that, let it spin. The extra air fluffs up the egg whites.

Once its done, let it sit for a minute. This is important. While it sits, heat up your skillet. This is important too. The batter needs time to thicken, and the skillet needs time to heat, so when batter meets skillet, it starts to cook and not spread out.
The skillet should sizzle when you pour the batter, and you'll know they are done when you start to see bubbles popping on the surface.

If you really want to be naughty, throw some chocolate chips in too after they hit the skillet. Yeah. It's worth it. 

Clean, high-carb, protein-packed joy right here.

Macros are: 4gF / 66gC / 19gP

Peace, love, and pancakes.
