---
title: "matcha latte"
asset: "matcha" 
category: eat
published: false
---

I gave up drinking coffee for lent. Well, I decided I was only going to drink it once a week at Sunday brunch. Seemed resonable. 

Then about a month into it, I noticed my face was no longer reddish in color and completely clear. For whatever reason, my body seemed to be happier without coffee. Kill me now. Of ALL the things, my beloved coffee had been betraying me.

Enter, matcha latte.

**What is matcha?**
<br> Matcha tea is a young tea leaf typically grown in Japan. It is high in antioxidants, amino acids, and chlorophyll. Matcha is known to have a relaxing effect on the mind and body. My favorite thing about it: it gives you a pick-me-up with out the jitters. You can [research](http://nutritionstripped.com/matcha-tea-latte/) it to learn more.

I prefer making mine as a latte, instead of with hot water. It makes the tea a decadent part of my morning routine. 

**What you need to make your own**
<br>Unsweetened almond milk or coconut milk. I measure it in the mug I am going to drink it out of.
<br>Splash of vanilla extract (or vanilla beans from the pod)
<br>1/8 tsp coconut oil
<br> Whisk. Traditionally, a [bamboo one](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B003VSEG7Q/ref=as_li_qf_sp_asin_il_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=B003VSEG7Q&linkCode=as2&tag=nutritstripp-20&linkId=354GHE6GFSOZPSI5)
<br> Matcha powder. I like [this kind.](http://www.bloomtea.co.uk/shop.php?t=24) I KNOW it seems pricy, but a little lasts a while. I also get this brand BOGO at my health food store. You can probably find similar deals elsewhere.

**How it works**
<br>Combine the first three ingredients on the stove-top and heat slowly. 
<br> In your mug, add the matcha tea powder and a small amount of hot water. Use the amount indicated on your packaging.
<br>Use a whisk [(traditionally a bamboo oneto whisk briskly in a zig-zag direction to make a green paste.
<br>Pour heated milk mixture into the paste and stir. 
<br>The matcha will dissolve quickly and easily. 

Drink it hot and slow and admire the beautiful green color.

**Matcha well,**
Sarah Kay



