---
title: "why yoga."
asset: "whyyoga" 
category: live
published: true
---
I first came to yoga, to make space for my flaws. A self-proclaimed and forever recovering perfectionist, looking for the freedom to just be me. To go on a journey where there is no arriving, just joy in the progress.

I came to yoga, to be active in my healing. Realizing that just as I cannot separate the parts of me, I cannot heal at all, unless I allow God to heal me in whole.

I came to yoga to accept myself as I am. To piece together the parts that make up the most authentic version of me. To learn how to love myself in a way that runs far deeper and truer than my circumstances. To allow for more grace in my life – both for myself and others.

I came to yoga to really see myself as God created me to be, and to find beauty in how he created others. 

I came to yoga to clear my head of clutter, heart of anger, and body of pain.

I came to yoga to do business with God. To let him speak and move and change me- one breath at a time. One meditative, worship-filled movement at a time.

I come to yoga now, to be wild and free in who I am.

I come to yoga now, holding all these things, and making space for new things to show up.

I now teach yoga, because I want the world to know they are loved. That who they are is part of me. That healing can occur, one day at a time. That every time they roll out their mat, they are safe in that space. Safe to live, breathe, grow, and become.

I come to teach yoga, as a tool to champion others in the pursuit of authentic living. To stand beside people as they enter into pain, and joy, and freedom. To whisper into hearts “it’s safe to be you here.”

I come to yoga because life is meant to be lived from a place of love. Where we honor each other and share in our alikeness, while magnifying our uniqueness.

I come to yoga, because I freaking love seeing people grab hold of life and really come alive. To hear their hearts, and read their stories as told by their bodies.

I come to yoga, to give it away to everyone. And what it gives, is love. 

Peace, love, and yoga.

[#graceinlivingwell](https://www.instagram.com/explore/tags/graceinlivingwell/)
