---
title: "practicing imperfection: just try"
asset: "filename of image (assumes a .jpg extension)" 
category: live
published: true
---
Have you ever you ever tried something new, and thought yourself “it feels like I should have been doing this my whole life?”

That’s hand lettering for me. I turn on some worship music, get my paint laid out all over the place and doodle. Really. That’s all it is. It’s just trying.

And I think that’s what I love about it. There is no perfecting, just trying. There’s freedom in trying and not expecting a result.

It’s why I love handlettering and yoga (though, not at the same time.) In both things, I am able to find pure joy in the journey, not in the achieving.

I wasn’t always this way for me though, and I’m still working on it.

I’m the kind of person that likes to start a project and finish it, relatively quickly. To me, projects that take days and months and years to complete , are the equivalent of watching a Lord of the Rings Marathon in slow motion. Backwards… and without wine. Shoot.me.now.
I have a “get it done” attitude about most things in life. So naturally, when I try something new and I’m not professional status right off the bat, I get a little snarky like “Why can’t I be a total bad ass at mastering this yoga pose with both feet above my head standing on one arm?” Whatever.

There is growing to be had in things that take progress. The longer the progress, the deeper the growth. And the journey is usually a sweet one, full of imperfect trying, falling, and getting back up again.

So this week’s [#practicingimperfection](https://www.instagram.com/explore/tags/practicingimperfection/)
prompt is: Just try.

Try something new. Not for achieving, or making money or to prove anything – just simply for the sake of trying.

Glennon Doyle Melton says “Show up before you are ready.” Try something before you feel ready – long before you are confident you might be good at it.
Most of the time “not being ready” is our excuse for not jumping in and just letting ourselves be imperfect at something.

Because when we give our best our effort in all its messiness, there’s wellness to be found. The beauty is not in the final result, but in the vulnerable courage to get up, and try.
There’s [graceinlivingwell](https://www.instagram.com/explore/tags/graceinlivingwell/) 
